# Contributions 

Group: 9

We employed the GitHub branch model to collaborate on the execution of the project. This scheme helped us integrate code, tests, vignettes, documentation and other files for the creation of the 'YTExploreR.r' package, merging and updating the final product. All members were involved in all stages of the package creation. However, we divided the functionalities evenly so that each of us could learn how to wrap the Youtbe API and then work with the data to create insightful plots. The dynamic for contributing to the project consists of individual work to develop the assigned wrapping functions and functionalities, troubleshooting during lab hours, and meetings in person at the library.

Andrew:  
My primary task was to complete the wrapper function `YTExploreR_get_uploads.R`, which (among some helper functions) contains `get_monthly_uploads`, my main functionality. This returns a dataframe containing channel activities, partitioned to only select "uploads" from a provided channel ID. I visualized this data as frequency of uploads per month, in a given year, as seen in `visualize_monthly_uploads`, which is toggleable for any year that the YouTube Activity API is able to pull data for. Additionally, I transformed this data and visualized hourly upload activity in `visualize_hourly_patterns`, which showcases the hourly channel upload activity on a 24 hour clock, organized by season (winter, spring, summer, fall). 

Karthiga: 
1)Created the initial R package template folder, 2) created video API wrapper to get details from the video API  3) created category API to get details from the category API 4) created a  functionality to give top 10) videos of a channel in particular year and visualize the proportion of likes, comments, duration in bar plot 5)Created a functionality that takes multiple video ids and analyses them and gives them a break down on category and channel. It gives 2 plots(bubble chart, pie chart)6) Added proper try catch blocks for maintaing stability in code 7) Added tests and improved coverage over 98% for the functions I built 8) Contributed to Readme 9) Contributed to Vignette 

Nayeli:  
My tasks for wrapping the API basically consist of extracting and retrieving information from the top-level data provided by the API, specifically the 'channels' endpoint. Using this data, I created the 'get_channel_stats' function to retrieve statistics about the channel. Additionally, I included a metric called 'engagement_level', which can be relevant for user analysis. Regarding the functionalities, I utilize the channel data to display individual statistics and generate four plots useful for channel comparison. Finally, I contribute by writing tests for my functions, providing examples in the vignette file, making improvements to the README file, and creating the YAML file for GitHub Actions.
